At present, periods are intended to be held constant for different cascades.

Existing treatments such as that of Demiraj, De Vaan, and Orel, have both similarities and differences in their periodization. 
One major commonality is that they all define Proto-Albanian in reference to the timing of loan words, and that Latin loans are the most important, especially the initial main wave of Latinisms.
Secondary importance is applied to Slavic waves, medieval Romance waves, and the various Greek waves; modern Turkish/Romance/etc waves are all assigned to Old or Early Modern Albanian. 
Orel 2000(:xii) has "Early" Proto-Albanian (EPA) and Late Proto-Albanian (LPA). 
OErel's PA is placed decisively just before the first main Latin influx, which Orel assumes is the 1st century CE (others date this earlier, a century or two back).
Its relationship to Greek loans is not clear other than usually describing them as following the same patterns as the native vocabulary. 
Orel's LPA is dated to hte 6th or 7th CE "following the contacts with Proto-Romance and ancient Slavic dialects still close to Proto-Slavic". 
This leaves Old Albanian to describe the Albanian of medieval times, with variants Old Tosk, Old Gheg). 
Demiraj 2006 dates the end of Proto-Albanian or effectively a "Late Proto-Albanian" stage a century earlier but still adheres to the framework of ending Proto-Albanian where Slavic loans begin. 
De Vaan 2018 adheres to Demiraj's periods, while noting that there are just a few early Slavic loans that do show n-rhotacism -- so these can be placed just before the end of Proto-Albanian.
De Vaan does not have Early and Late Proto-Albainan, but rather Pre-Proto-Albanian (PPAlb) and Proto-Albanian PAlb); he toys also with breaking these two periods, 
internally breaking PPAlb on the basis of when Greek loans occurred, and breaking PAlb on the timing of contact with Proto-Romanian. 
Another view does have "Late Proto-Albanian" continuing long after the dialect split happened, until the onset of Turkish loans -- which for most other accounts is effectively Early Old Albanian (Gheg, Tosk...). 
Some accounts, especially Orel's, also distinguish different waves of Latin loans (and different waves of Slavic loans).
At least three Latin waves not attributed to specific later Romance languages appear to be in Orel. 

The goal here is to make a periodization that is consistent and can fit different views.
We want to handle existing treatments in the way most likely to lead to new insights. 
Ultimately lexical items will be divided in terms of when they will "enter the lexicon" that the cascade operates upon. 
There might have to be a different treatment so that we can allow Orel to be tested on his own terms -- in terms of his early Latin loans, later Latin loans etc... 
Some of the  difference is Latin internal though, and that is to be handled in terms of the form of the item entered into the cascade-operated lexicon. 
Cases where De Vaan has competing rules for Latin etyma that overlap in scope will have to be handled in terms of a difference in entry timeas well - there does not seem to be another option (or form at entry with Latin internal rules applied? -- but just as done with Orel either way). 
The same order as Orel will be assumed if it works for De Vaan's cascade, otherwise an order that seems consistent with the forms he applies will be applied, with notes in comments for justification as deemed necessary. 
Where there is uncertainty, the option deemed least likely to lead to downstream errors will be chosen -- with notes in comments on the uncertainty.
There are to be no gold stages before attested Old Albanian in the 15th/16th/17th centuries -- as there is no observed corpus. 
The main purpose of different stages is to have consistent times to compare, and times to place the entry of different items into the lexicon operated upon. 
Having the stages is not making any claims -- a stage can simply be left without any lexemes entering at that point. 
But they do allow testing hypotheses about the origins of words, and allow a mapping between the works of different authors. 
Thus the following policies apply.

Proto-Albanian refers to stages that are before the split of Gheg and Tosk. 
After Proto-Albanian, Gheg and Tosk get separate treatment. 
The few rhotacised Slavic words in Tosk can be placed before this (if there is not another explanation). 

Since all Proto-Albanian changes common to Gheg and Tosk happen before then, the stage LATE PROTO-ALBANIAN refer to the accumulation of all of these changes before the split. 

Thus, the stages. Each is recorded at its end point-- the culmination of the changes occurring within it. So they are effectively POSTDATED.

0. Proto-Indo-European
		-- agnostic for now if treating greater Proto-Indo-European, before the split of Anatolian (and Tocharian), or the smaller one here. 
	layers added at this point: native vocab
		0 = actually proto-indo-anatolian (??) 
	0.1 -- Classical Proto-Indo-European (post-Anatolic) -- not currently differentiated in implementation (TODO?)
	0.2 -- Proto-Balkan-Indo-European? ~ common ancestor of Greek, Albanian (Armenian? )
			-- implement? 
	
		
I. Archaic Proto-Albanian -- APA -- changes in this period affect earliest Greek loans, but not earliest wave of Latin loans 
	Begins around 350 BCE? 
	Postdated to c. 150 BCE
	
	layers added at beginning of this point: Greek Wave 1 (Doric and/or "Macedonian" -- cf Huld 1986); other proposed early loans; proposed neologisms at this point? (these won't be mentioned but are implicit for stages below.  

	falls before the end of Early Proto-Albanian for Orel and Pre-Proto-Albanian for De Vaan

	the end is equivalent to De Vaan 2018's PPAlb, and in terms of relative phonological chronology to Orel 2000's EPA

	PIE & Gk a: > ɒː in this period (later > ɔː) 
			Orel claims that a one Latin loan is affected, but there's a better explanation 
		Alb mollë "apple, apple tree" does not need to be Lat. mālvm id. (Orel 2000: 31), but could instead be from Doric mālā (Schumacher & Matzinger 2013). 
		(subsequent Greek possible waves at every later stage)

	layers added after this point: Latin wave 1, Greek wave 2 

	note that at early stages of this project, unfortunately and confusingly, "antique" was used for Classical Proto-Albanian, but later for Archaic Proto-Albanian.
	
	A putative proto-Messapo-Balkanic would be just before this point, but its existence remains hypothetical.

II. Classical Proto-Albanian -- CPA
	begins just after 150 BCE
	Postdated to c. 200 CE
	Waves affected by changes in this period but not earlier ones: first Latin wave ("Classical Latin" ?)

		wrt. De Vaan 2018(:1732); divergence of Albanian etyma in Romanian around the end of this or between that and the end of the next period.
	
	layers added after this pointː
		second Latin wave

III* -- Middle Proto-Albanian -- MPA (tentatively)
	tentative stage
	to handle various to be entered here: 
		putative Gothic loans should enter here if they are to be tested
		"late wave" Latin loans if necessary to test views, probably those of Orel
		divergence of Albanian etyma in Romanian after this (cf De Vaan 2018 : 1732) 
		also the few pre-rhotacism Slavic loans 
	very tentatively 450 CE

	layers added after tihs pointː  
		Gothic, Latin/Romance wave 3, pre-rhotic Slavic loans (?), Greek wave 3 (?) 
		
	Divided into stages MPA I, MPA II

IV. Late Proto-Albanian -- LPA 
	Postdated to sometime in 600-800 CE 
	equivalent to end of LPA for Orel, and PAlb for De Vaan 
	after this Gheg and Tosk split
	divided into LPA I, LPA II

	Waves first affected changes in this period: 
		Proto-Slavic (main or at least initial wave)
		local Romance substrate? 
	after this, Gheg and Tosk split. 


For now, only doing CFR for the Tosk underlying Standard Albanian, i.e. a southern Northern Tosk variety (i.e. like the speech around Kelcyra etc)
Tosk splits in middle ages most likely
	Southern Tosk may have different outcomes for nasal outcomes which argues for an early split
	Southern Tosk itself differentiates probably in or by the 13th century, even it subgroups are diverse (moreso than Northern Tosk) 
Gheg must have broken up before the Ottoman era, but unclear how long before that at present. 

V. Proto-Tosk-Albanian -- PTA
	Postdated to an uncertain date, between 850 and 1050  
	after this Northern Tosk and Southern Tosk split
	(split of Southern Tosk into Lab, Cham, Arb, Arv occurs around 1250-1300, no exact specified Northern Tosk split at this time -- Lekë Matrënga probably belongs to Old Arbëreshë not Old Tosk even though his family's domain was originally Myzeqe) 
	
	layers added after this pointː 
		Old Bulgarian/Old Church Slavonic
		Byzantine Greek
		Old Italian I 

VI. Proto-Northern-Tosk-Albanian -- PNTA
	Postdated to about 1250 

	layers added after this pointː 	[theoretically]
		Old Venetian
		Old Angevin
		Byzantine Greek II
		Old Italian II 
		Old Serbian 
		Ottoman I

VII. Old North Tosk (Albanian)  -- ONTA	 
	Postdated to about 1700-1750 
	
	resulting variety is intended to roughly represent the language of early Northern Tosk writers, e.g. Kosta Berati (Berat -- Orthodox -- late XVIII- early XIX), Nezim Frakulla (Frakull, Myzeqe - Sunni? - 1685-1750), Dalip and Shahin Frashëri (Frashër, Dangëllia -- Bektashi -- 19th c.), Hasan Zyko Kamberi (Starje, Kolonja -- Bektashi -- circa 1789), Sulejman Naibi (Berat -- Bektashi -- 1700s), and perhaps the early rilindas writers.

	layers added after this pointː 
		Ottoman II 
		modern Italian
		modern French
		modern Greek
		etc.
		
VIII -- Modern Standard (Tosk Albanian) -- MSTA 
